docs: tw-795-arbowner-method-explanation-expansion (#3541)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/launch-arbitrum-chain/chain-config/costs/gas-optimization.mdx

> - **[RECOMMENDED] Multiple Gas Targets (supported starting [ArbOS 51 Dia](/run-arbitrum-node/arbos-releases/arbos51))**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[RECOMMENDED] Multiple <a data-quicklook-from="gas-target">Gas Targets</a> (supported starting [ArbOS 51 Dia](/run-arbitrum-node/arbos-releases/arbos51))**
```

- **Description**: This limits the maximum amount consumable by all <a data-quicklook-from="transaction">transactions</a> in a single <a data-quicklook-from="L2">L2</a> block—for execution, not for the parent chain data availability (DA) fee charge. It helps control block size and processing time. In practice, ArbOS enforces a dynamic limit based on the gas target and gas pools, but this sets a hard cap.
- **Default**: 32,000,000 gas per block.

> - **Configuration**: Call the [`setMaxTxGasLimit(uint64 limit)`](/arbitrum-essentials/precompiles/reference.mdx#arbowner) method on the [`ArbOwner` precompile](/arbitrum-essentials/precompiles/reference.mdx#arbowner), where `limit` is the desired max gas. The method name suggests it sets the block limit, though it may technically apply to individual transactions; in practice, it caps block usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Configuration**: Call the [`setMaxTxGasLimit(uint64 limit)`](/arbitrum-essentials/precompiles/reference.mdx#arbowner) method on the [`ArbOwner` precompile](/arbitrum-essentials/precompiles/reference.mdx#arbowner), where `limit` is the desired max gas. Despite its name, on chains running ArbOS versions earlier than [ArbOS 51 Dia](/run-arbitrum-node/arbos-releases/arbos51) this method caps total block gas usage. From ArbOS 51 onward, it caps individual transactions instead: the block limit is set separately with `setMaxBlockGasLimit(uint64 limit)`, and the final transaction in a block may exceed it by up to the transaction limit (the effective block gas limit is `MaxBlockGasLimit + MaxTxGasLimit`).
```

> - **Configuration**: Call the [`setMaxTxGasLimit(uint64 limit)`](/arbitrum-essentials/precompiles/reference.mdx#arbowner) method on the [`ArbOwner` precompile](/arbitrum-essentials/precompiles/reference.mdx#arbowner), where `limit` is the desired max gas. This method is described as setting the block limit, although technically it may focus on per-transaction limits; in practice, it caps block usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Configuration**: Call the [`setMaxTxGasLimit(uint64 limit)`](/arbitrum-essentials/precompiles/reference.mdx#arbowner) method on the [`ArbOwner` precompile](/arbitrum-essentials/precompiles/reference.mdx#arbowner), where `limit` is the desired max gas. The method name suggests it sets the block limit, though it may technically apply to individual transactions; in practice, it caps block usage.
```
